
The modifier static

The modifier static is used to create methods and variables (fields) belonging to a class and not to an object.


static
The data field or method declared in a class as static is common for all objects of that class and
is called a class field or a class method. In other words, they belong to a class and not to a class instance.

Static fields (class fields) have a number of features compared to instance fields:

Feature 1
Static fields should be used without creating a class instance.
Feature 2
If one object changes the value of such a field, all objects will see this change.


Static methods (class methods) are used to work with static class fields or only with data
 specified in their parameters. Just like class fields, static methods have a number of features:

//    Static methods are not polymorphic; that is, the method version to be executed is determined at compile time.

//    Static methods can be called from instance methods directly, just like static class fields.

//    Static methods are not linked to a class instance and thus cannot use the keywords this or super to access
//    a specific object.

//    Static methods cannot access instance fields and methods directly. To access these, you need to create
//    or receive a reference to the object.

To access static fields and methods, it is enough to specify before them the name of the class where they are defined.
Of course, you can access a static method also using a reference to an object since any class instance has access to
the static members of the class. However, this access will be logically incorrect, make the code more difficult to
understand, and lead to the corresponding warning—though it will not cause a compilation error.

Consider a few examples of using the keyword static.

Recommendation: Methods using only static class data should be declared as static so that you can use them
without creating a class instance.

The definition of a class method as static depends on the data used by it:


Recommendation: Methods that receive everything they need through parameters are auxiliary and should be declared as static.


Limitations for static methods:

Static methods can directly invoke only static methods.
Static methods can directly access only static fields or their own parameters.
Static methods cannot be accessed using the references this and super.
Static methods can be overloaded with non-static ones and vice versa.