Gruffalo:
A mouse took a stroll through the deep dark wood.
A fox saw the mouse and the mouse looked good.

«Where are you going to, little brown mouse?
Come and have lunch in my underground house.»

«It's terribly kind of you, Fox, but no –
I'm going to have lunch with a gruffalo.»

«A gruffalo? What's a gruffalo?»
«A gruffalo! Why, didn't you know?

He has terrible tusks, and terrible claws,
And terrible teeth in his terrible jaws."

«Where are you meeting him?»
«Here, by these rocks,
And his favourite food is roasted fox.»

«Roasted fox! I'm off» Fox said.
«Goodbye, little mouse,» and away he sped.

«Silly old Fox! Doesn't he know,
There's no such thing as a gruffalo?»

On went the mouse through the deep dark wood.
An owl saw the mouse, and the mouse looked good.

«Where are you going to, little brown mouse?
Come and have tea in my treetop house.»

«It's terribly kind of you, Owl, but no –
I'm going to have tea with a gruffalo.»

«A gruffalo? What's a gruffalo?»
«A gruffalo! Why, didn't you know?

He has knobbly knees, and turned-out toes,
And a poisonous wart at the end of his nose.»

«Where are you meeting him?»
«Here, by this stream,
And his favourite food is owl ice cream.»

«Owl ice cream? Too-whit! Too-whoo!!»
«Goodbye, little mouse,» and away Owl flew.

«Silly old Owl! Doesn't he know,
There's no such thing as a gruffalo?»

On went the mouse through the deep dark wood.
A snake saw the mouse, and the mouse looked good.

«Where are you going to, little brown mouse?
Come for a feast in my log-pile house.»

«It's terribly kind of you, Snake, but no –
I'm having a feast with a gruffalo.»

«A gruffalo? What's a gruffalo?»
«A gruffalo! Why, didn't you know?

His eyes are orange, his tongue is black,
He has purple prickles all over his back.»

«Where are you meeting him?»
«Here, by this lake,
And his favourite food is scrambled snake.»

«Scrambled snake? It's time I hid!»
«Goodbye, little mouse,» and away Snake slid.

«Silly old Snake! Doesn't he know,
There's no such thing as a gruffal...?»